1.  The Exilic Prophets: What did the Lord share with Daniel, Ezekiel, and Jeremiah for them to teach their exilic audiences?
	1.  What was going on in the days of Daniel and what did his stories and visions have to say to his exilic audience?
	2.  What was going on in the days of Ezekiel and what did his sign-acts and visions have to say to his exilic audience?
	3.  What was going on in the days of Jeremiah and what did his sign-acts and teachings have to say to his exilic audience?
	**My Answer: In Daniel's time, Israel was in exile. During this period, Daniel was blessed with the ability to interpret dreams. Daniel used these visions to proclaim the word of God to the kings he worked under, and these visions showed his exilic audience that God was still with them. In the days of Ezekiel, Israel was still in exile, and Ezekiel was given the task of performing a variety of sign acts. These sign acts included only eating bread made with a fire fueled by cattle feces, Ezekiel lying on his side for 430 consecutive days, and making a model of the city defending its aggressors out of a brick. The purpose of these sign acts were to make it clear to his exilic audience that the reason they were in exile was not because of the sins of their ancestors, but because of their own sins. In Jeremiah's time, Judah still had its sovereignty under Josiah, who was 21 years old at the time. Jeremiah's sign acts were meant to be a warning to Judah, and they were not received very well by the people. Because of his sign acts and prophecies, he was whipped, put in stocks, and even stoned in Egypt, being left for dead. Nevertheless, Jeremiah still cared deeply for his people and his nations, which deeply troubled him.**

2.  The Post-Exilic Prophets: What did Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi teach their post-exilic audiences?
    1.  What was going on in the days of Haggai and what did his message and encouragement do for his post-exilic audience?
    2.  What was going on in the days of Zechariah and what did his visions and dreams about the messiah say to his post-exilic audience?
    3.  What was going on in the days of Malachi and what did the assertions, questions, and explanations he received from God have to say to his post-exilic audience?
    4.  Why was post-exilic Israel giving up on the coming Day of the Lord?

	**My Answer: In Haggai's time, people were starting to head back to their homes, and were repairing their homes. Haggai noticed that the temple was still in ruins, and wanted the people of Israel to start rebuilding the temple before they started rebuilding their homes. His message encouraged his audience that even though the temple would not be as glorious as it was in the days of Solomon, they would still need to rebuild it and that their job would be sufficient. In the days of Zechariah, much of Israel was not moving back to their homeland after being freed from their exile. Zechariah's goal was to instruct the people to return to their nation. Zechariah's visions and dreams encouraged his audience to finish the temple, repent of their sins, and engage in social justice because of the hope they had in the Messiah. In Malachi's day, people are starting to lose faith and become more corrupt, similarly to how we see the Sanhedrin in Jesus' day. They are starting to become skeptical of Jesus' arrival, the priests are careless, and they are starting to intermarry with pagans, against God's instruction. They are becoming skeptical of the coming Day of the Lord because they are not experiencing the golden age that was promised to them, but this is merely because their sin is preventing it, which Malachi preaches. His questions and explanations from God tell his audience that while God still loves them, they are not giving God the respect He deserves.**

3.  A Question Based on Units 1-2 (Psalms & Wisdom): What do Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Song of Solomon teach us about gaining and using wisdom to be people of character today?
    1.  Use your previous written essays for the take-home portion of the unit 1-2 exams to formulate your answer to this question.

	**My Answer: In Job we learn that evil happens in the world for a large variety of reasons, and God is not responsible for all of the evil in the world. In Psalms we learn that there is a wide variety of ways that we can speak with God. Whether it be to repent with a Penitential Psalm, to glorify God with a Praise Psalm, or to express sorrow to God with a lament Psalm, God's power must be acknowledged throughout. In Proverbs, we learn a variety of lessons, one of which comes from its history. Proverbs is a collection of wise sayings not just from the Israelites, but also from other nations and ANE religions, which says that there is something to learn from every culture, and that one should at least consider all wisdom that is given to them, regardless of the source. What we learn more directly from the Proverbs is that wisdom does not come naturally to us, and that we should be very conscious of avoiding acting foolishly. Ecclesiastes teaches us that the things that we think give live meaning are truly meaningless, and that God is the only one who gives life true meaning. In addition, we should enjoy life and seize the day, as the Christian life can be filled with joy. Song of Solomon teaches us that human love is extremely powerful and that the process of loving someone with the goal of marriage is the same way that we would approach our love to God. In addition, if human love is as powerful as Song of Solomon describes, then God's love for us must be even more powerful than this.**

4.  A Question Based on Units 3-4 (Pre-exilic and Post-exilic Prophets): What do the major prophets (Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel) and minor prophets (Hosea-Malachi) teach us about the importance of prophecy for ancient Israel and about the God we still serve today?
    1.  Use your previous written essays for the take-home portion of the unit 1-2 exams to formulate your answer to this question.

	**My Answer: The prophecies of the major prophets were important to the people of Israel because they signaled that Israel would fall according to the will of God. However, they all came with the promise of hope if they repented, and the knowledge that God would go before them into exile. In addition, it teaches us today that if God wills something to happen, it will happen. Sometimes God gives an offer to repent, but often God's will is indelible. However, even in these types of situations, God can still be a help to those in exile, as Daniel illustrates. Daniel kept contact with God when most of his nation turned their backs, and God rewarded him with high standing with Babylonian kings as well as the power to interpret dreams. As for the minor prophets, they informed the people of what God wanted from them post-exile. For example, God makes assertions about Israel, which Malachi asks questions about according to the people, and God answers explaining his assertion. This gave the people of Israel important insight as to what they were supposed to do and what they needed to look out for. I think that we can gain a similar kind of insight from these prophets as we also often forget to honor God in the ways that the Israelites previously did.**