## Q1: Wisdom Intro & Proverbs: You are writing a letter to your future children about what it means to be wise and how the wise live differently than the foolish. Use your notes from class to provide a brief description of what wisdom is & how it is learned vs. what folly is & how it is learned.

Help:

- Choose 3 of the best proverbs from the book of Proverbs to help your children in their journey toward wisdom and explain why you chose these 3.
- Prompts to help direct your answers:
	1. What is wisdom and the purpose of wisdom literature?
	2. Who wrote these Proverbs; and what makes them worthy people from whom to learn wisdom?
	3. Who are the two female voices in Proverbs and what are their dire messages?
	4. Who is the fool in proverbs and what is the four-step process to becoming a fool? How does someone become wise?
	5. What are 3 major themes/topics in Proverbs and what can we learn from each one? Be sure to cite the passages where these themes/topics are found.

**My Answer: **

- **Wisdom is a difficult thing to learn because it is not the natural way for humans to act. Naturally, humans drift towards foolishness, and this happens in four steps. The first of these is allowing the self to act foolishly in small isolated ways. This includes things like succumbing to angry behavior, fighting recklessly, mismanaging income, etc. The next of these is acting foolishly with intention. This kind of person ignores discipline, and enjoys their foolishness. After this the fool is beyond correction, and actively hate the idea of knowledge. These menaces to society blame everything and everyone but themselves for the consequences of their actions. They deserve nothing but disgrace, and are people who are to be actively avoided if at all possible. To be wise in a general sense means to be not only receptive to God's word, but to also have discipline as a person. Three Proverbs that illustrate this very well are Proverbs 11, 12, and 28. Proverbs 11 is a collection of various different wise sayings, but they are all very important. One of the most valuable of these is verse 22 "Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout is a beautiful woman who shows no discretion". Chapter 12 reinforces what foolishness is by saying "Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but whoever hates correction is stupid". Chapter 28 is similar in form to the other two Proverbs in my list, and it states that "Those who work their land will have abundant food, but those who chase fantasies will have their fill of poverty." I chose these Proverbs because they all are direct instructions on how to become wise, and how to avoid foolishness.  They are very exact and easy to understand.**

## Q2: Job and the Problem of Evil: A person asks for your opinion on why bad things happen to good people. They really want to know the 5 sources of evil so that they can decide which source is responsible for the bad thing that happened in their life. Give them the 5 sources of evil with a brief explanation of each one and a verse to go along with each explanation. Then, in 1-2 sentences explain why their response to evil may be more important than finding the source. After writing that, you realize the person you are speaking to is Job. Does that change your answer any? If so, what do you say to him about his situation in a few final sentences?

Help:

 -   Prompts to help direct your answers:
	 1. Review the sources of evil lecture (What are the 5 sources? What are verses associated with each? Why does our response matter most?)
	 2. Review the Job lectures (Why is Job a theodicy? What is the wager about? What role does the Satan, God, and Job play in it? What are the 3 arguments Job’s friends make to Job to explain the evil he experiences? What is Job’s response? What do Elihu and God contribute to the debate? What happens in the end of the book, why, and what do we learn from it?)

**My Answer:**

- **In the world there are 5 sources of evil. The first of these is the self, because humans are the ones who are sinful (Joshua 7:20). For the same reason, evil can come from other humans, as seen in the stoning of Stephen (Acts 7:54-58). Evil can also come from demons through spiritual warfare, as shown in 1 Peter 5:8 through a description of Satan's activities on the Earth. Evil can also come from God through curses and judgement, which aren't truly evil, and are often against those who are truly evil, but are still bad for those affected. A good example of this is in Amos 4:9. The last and hardest to pinpoint source of evil in my opinion is through accident. Sometimes people just die out of nowhere, and disease afflicts people indiscriminately. Sometimes, evil just happens without it being deserved in any way. An example of this is the bleeding woman in Mark 5:25. The most important thing is not the source of the evil, but rather how we deal with the evil in the world. God doesn't always reconcile the evil, but because God is powerful, we can know that in the wider scale of eternity, the evil is meaningless, and that the only one who has outlived evil is God. Job's situation doesn't really change any of my answers as my answers take into account the various reasons Job was afflicted.**

## Q3: Ecclesiastes and Song of Solomon: Two big questions in life are “what is love” and “what is the meaning of life”? Using Song of Solomon and Ecclesiastes, offer a brief answer to both questions. Include the modern views of love and how the couple in Song of Solomon reflect a different kind of love. Include the 3 different views on the meaning of life as “hevel” in Ecclesiastes and then offer which one you believe is most accurate in your experience of the world and why.

Help:

 -   Prompts to help direct your answers:
	 1. Who is Qoheleth and what is he trying to accomplish in this book (ultimate goal/message)?
	 2. What are the 3 meanings of “hevel” and how does each meaning effect our understanding of life?
	 3. What are the 4 aspects of life focused on in this book and how does Qoheleth respond to the feeling that each of them are “hevel”?
	 4. What are the different ways Song of Solomon has been read throughout the ages and how it read today? What is the story of the two lovers all about? How does it play out? What does each one do? How does this teach about love for God, love from God, and love for our spouse? How are popular songs and SOS similar and how are they different?

**My Answers:**

1. **According to the Song of Solomon, love is a mixture of desire, struggle, and embrace. Desire is shown in how the male lover interprets every detail that the female lover sees as undesirable as something to be admired. Struggle is shown in each lover's frustration with the wait for marriage. Embrace is shown in the way they treat each other before and after marriage. This illustration of love shows what the pinnacle of human love should look like. It's not a love that considers only outward appearance or sexual gratification as modern views of love portray, it's an exclusive love that two people share that manifests in an enhanced view of the other's physical traits and personality. Song of Solomon's view of human love also allows the reader to get a true scope for how deep God's love is, as it is so much more compared to human love, which is itself deep enough to warrant the writing of the Song of Solomon.**
2. **According to Ecclesiastes, life has no inherent meaning. The Qoheleth, the title of the author of Ecclesiastes, tells the assembly that he teaches to that life is "meaningless", and that "all go to dust, and to dust they shall return". There are three leading view on how to interpret Ecclesiastes, specifically the word "hevel" translated as "meaningless". The pessimist view says that hevel means life is empty, vain and meaningless, but God is filling, the realist view says that hevel means life is absurd and paradoxical, but God is ordered, and the optimist view says that hevel means life is short and fleeting, but enjoyable for one who lives for God. I believe that that all three of these are valid ways to see Ecclesiastes from a number of different angles, but I think that the most beneficial view for everyday life is the optimist view. This view says that if you keep God in the center of your life, then being in his service imbues life with meaning. It also encourages living in the moment, which allows you to not only enjoy the time that you have but also to be more able to serve God with that time. It encourages you to slow down and enjoy life. Life may be short, but it is still a gift of God that he wants us to enjoy.**