Not to respond too much to your thoughts right now, but I also think that GD is caused by a faulty definition, but I think that it's a fault in the definition of gender, specifically gender norms. Something that's been happening lately is that the physical and mental definitions for what was formerly sex/gender have now been separated into sex and gender respectively. I agree with you in saying that sex is immutable, although gender is different in that it is by (the new) definition a fluid concept. It's a mindset. (Honestly I would've just made a new word for it but I'm not in charge of English as a language, but here we are, gender is a mindset, blah de blah, words are dumb). 

But as for trans people, not all of them get surgery because for them the root issue is not about hormones or genitals, it's about self-expression. The idea behind self-expression for trans people is, to boil it down for this context, not having to live up to the expectations/trappings/stereotypes that come from being a male/female when they don't "feel" like one (according to the current definition, this distinction will be important). Which begs, the question, what make someone "feel" male or female? And I think that this is driven by societal definitions of what makes someone male or female.

For example, according to society, if you're a man, you're unbreakable. You're muscular. You're also kind of an idiot, loud, brutish, etc. If you're a woman, you're slim, beautiful, nowadays smart gets added to the definition, elegant, etc. Obviously these definitions are reductive, narrow, and generate terribly unhealthy expectations. If you are a secular male expecting to be muscular and strong, and instead you're physically weak and emotionally vulnerable, the logical conclusion for that male is that he's not "supposed to be" male because he's simply not "manly" according to our stupid definitions. And obviously we have deeper, more inclusive definitions for what being a man means, but those aren't necessarily shared by society. For these examples I'm going with the societal definitions, not our personal ones.

I think that this busted definitions has everything to do with the issues that plague people who want to transition. They don't identify with the definition that fits their sex (the way they're born), so they want to swap. The reason why so many of them end up more depressed even after their change is because they realize that they just changed from one set of narrow, contrived rules to another, and they realize that they no longer have the hope that transitioning would magically solve their problems (which they'd realize PRE-TRANSITION if they had the counseling session that should be required by law, but I digress...). At the end of the day, the issue lies that according to the contrived definitions, the majority of people don't neatly fit into either category, which is what I think causes GD.