# Q1
Joshua: Describe in what ways the conquest of Canaan was complete, what ways it was incomplete, and how Christians might explain this violence in the OT. Be sure to discuss all three major battles for Canaan at Jericho, Ai, and **Ḥaṣor.**

One of the ways the Conquest of Canaan was complete is that Israel successfully eradicated a large enough group of powers to avoid being taken over, which allowed them to lay claim to their land (Joshua 12). At Jericho, the Israelites were able to trust God to deliver the city into their hands, and after marching around the city for a week and after yelling as instructed by God, the city fell. At Ai, the same would be said if not for Achan. Achan had stolen from the spoils of war in Babylonia, which were meant to be reserved for the Lord. Because of this, Israel lost their first battle against Ai, and after stoning Achan and returning the stolen possessions, Israel won their second battle against Ai (Joshua 7-8).  God also allowed the Israelites to win at Ḥaṣor against all of the northern kingdoms. After killing all of their armies, Israel went after the kingdoms directly, killing their kings and taking their land (Joshua 11). However, Their conquest was incomplete in many ways that would haunt them later. The Israelites spared a few countries who would later return with a vengeance, as is clearly shown in Judges 1. This explains violence in the Old Testament by showing that Israel was significantly weaker than any other nation in the region, including Ai with they had underestimated. However, God wanted to show his might to the people of the region as well as to the Israelites, so he ordered the Israelites to consume the land.

# Q2
Judges: Choose 2 of the following 4 questions to answer in your essay: (a) Does God give up on people, (b) Is it more important to save a life or keep a vow, (c) Does God work through wicked people, and (d) Is it better to have a bad king or no king at all? Be sure to use 3 judges as examples in your answers to these 2 questions.

God works through wicked people constantly. One great example of this is the story of Samson. Despite being selfish and defiant towards God during the entirety of his time as a judge, God uses Samson to deliver a huge blow to the Philistines when he collapses the temple of their god on top of them (Judges 16), freeing the Israelites from their captivity. Even is his disobedience Samson was fighting the Philistines by burning their crops and killing them in droves because of what had happened with his Philistine wife. This shows that God's power can be displayed even through wicked people like Samson. I also believe that it is more important to keep a vow (to the Lord) than it is to save a life. Jephthah made a rash vow in his desperation that resulted in him having to sacrifice the first thing to come out of his door as a burnt offering. This happened to be his daughter. Israel even made a rash vow as a nation by allowing Abimelech to rise to power. He was then so hated by the people that he was killed, and through that killing God renconciled the deaths of Abimelech's seventy brothers by his own hand. Through this, it is clear that God can work through wicked people, but also that it is more important to keep a vow with the Lord, but also not to make rash vows to begin with.

# Q3
1 Samuel & Ruth: Describe the rise of Saul, the fall of Saul, and what caused the shift. Then, in 2-3 sentences, consider 1 character from the book of Ruth who is most like or unlike Saul and describe why this is the case.

Saul is one of God's anointed, and was a very kingly man in all traditional senses of the word. He was tall, strong, and charismatic; he was exactly what the people of Israel wanted. Saul then does many good deeds as king, but is rebuked by Samuel when he did what he saw fit in regards to his fight at Gilgal rather than trust God. This is where Saul's fall starts, as he strays further and further from the will of God. This Samuel tells him that he will not be visiting him anymore because of his rejection of God. I think this shift is caused because Saul starts to realize the amount of power he has as king that he gains from his subjects, and starts forgetting that God is his true source of power as king. Because of this, he starts doing what he sees fit rather than consulting God. In the book of Ruth, the one who is most unlike Saul is likely Ruth herself. This is because Saul is chosen from a young age because of his kingly appearance to rule Israel, while Ruth is a servant widow who is viewed as low by society, and is accepted by Boaz because of her heart, not her appearance. In addition, because of his actions, Saul is not a part of Jesus' lineage, but Ruth is a part of Jesus' lineage because of her actions.