
1. David had many very positive contributions to Israel. Repeatedly in 2nd Samuel, it is said that David brought great military victories. David is also said to have killed "tens of thousands" as opposed to Saul's "thousands" (1 Sam 18), which further demonstrates his military prowess. David was also a good role model to his country, as he was a man of good morals. Even when he fails God and his people, he repents and turns towards God rather than away from Him. Solomon also did a lot of good for his people. As a very wise king, he catapults Israel into a season of affluence and splendor, and is gains Israel high respect among surrounding nations. However, these kings are not infallible. David commits adultery and murder, then tries to cover up both. Solomon in his later years loses his focus and starts gaining a massive number of concubines, who all turn him away from the Lord. These two kings are highly honored in scripture despite these transgressions because of their contributions to Israel, David in his military prowess and Solomon in his wisdom and organizational/management abilities.
   
2. King Ahab was one of the worst kings of Israel to ever live. He was notably petty, as shown in his killing of Naboth for his vineyard. He and his wife Jezebel followed Baal, and led Israel into a time of chaos. Elijah tried to reform Israel in the time of King Ahab. Elijah faced followers of Baal on Mount Carmel and proved God's might on the mountain, though Ahab remained in denial God's greatness. Ahab was unfortunately so antagonistic that Elijah was unable to postpone Israel's downfall for long, and was taken up into heaven shortly after the end of Ahab's reign. Judah also had some bad kings, Manasseh being one of the most notable. He rebuilt idols after his father had destroyed them. He also was said to have shed a large amount of innocent blood, leading to him being a king that was disliked by God and his nation alike.
   
3. Ezra helped bring about major changes after the Jews' return from exile. He helped the Jews rediscover the Torah and their traditions. More than that, Ezra helped the Jews remember how to be faithful and subservient to God. Another influential leader, Esther, saved her people from certain doom. She was assigned a position of power by the king of Persia, and because of her position she was able to prevent a genocide plot from Haman, an enemy of her people and her family. She helped not only to prevent the death of her people, but also helped her people protect themselves and continue to grow after their period of exile. Cyrus, though not a Jewish leader, was very influential in the salvation of the Jews as he was the first leader to allow Israel to return to their homeland to worship their God. After these leaders, a Messiah was still necessary because the practices of the Jews were focused on recovering what they had before their exile. The purpose of the Messiah's arrival was to tell the Jews how they could change and improve, and furthermore to inform the Jews of God's new commands for his people.
   
4. The Old Testament is very valuable for guiding how we live today. One of the many things that it teaches very well is devotion to God. Stories such as Noah's Ark in Genesis, Gideon's March around Jericho in Judges, and Moses' Triumph over Egypt in Exodus show directly how total devotion and trust in God earns his favor, which can manifest itself as success in one's challenges. The Old Testament is also really good at reminding modern Christians that God is powerful. This is shown during Elijah's sacrifice at Mount Carmel in 1 Kings, and the consuming of Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis. However, more than anything, the Old Testament gives the modern Christian context for the stories that they read from the New Testament. Having this information allows the modern Christian to further appreciate the journey the world took to get to Jesus as Messiah. Stories such as Ezra's revival of the temple and Israel gathering together to rebuild the wall of Jerusalem in Nehemiah display this perfectly. These stories aren't just a look into an ancient culture, but a look into the complete story of how Jesus cane into the world. The Old Testament is an invaluable resource to the modern Christian because it answers questions that so many Christians have about topics like the creation of the world, the capabilities of our God, and the ways in which God has worked historically and how he tends to work now.