#rant
Firstly, I guess I should talk about how I define love in a platonic sense. I feel like my definition of love is similar to yours in many ways, although I personally name it differently. I've always referred to friends that I (by your definition) show platonic affection for as my "inner circle". Because definitions are all wibbly wobbly (especially among straight males between other straight males), it's just kind of easier to explain that way. Like, for example, under your definition of platonic love I "love" Lawson. One of my best friends easily. But I wouldn't say that to his face because of the connotations behind the word "love". It kind of just ends up being more trouble to explain than it's worth, and I prefer to just say that I value him highly as a friend. It's easier to explain it in the context of Godly love, but only barely.

As for non-platonic love, I totally agree with your definition (in that it's a combination of romance and attraction), but I don't really know how to put it into my own words. The weird thing with me is that I've kind of been tugged into the non-platonic relationships I've been in and just kinda went along with it because when I thought about it, I didn't not like the person in question, and it just kind of worked out (for a while, but with one exception, more details in a little). In my opinion, non-platonic love is (in a way) an emergent property that can start in a number of ways. For some it's through "concentrated attraction". For some, it's through an originally platonic relationship. But somehow, it just kind of... happens. And sometimes it doesn't. There's kind of a rhyme/reason behind it, but also not really (otherwise everyone who really loves their field of work and is looking for a partner that shares their interests would be equally attracted to most of their coworkers lol). 

Anyways, the exception.

I won't say names because I don't want to affect how you think of this person (I'm 99% sure you know her), but we were talking over text and somehow the subject of our relationship being platonic came up, and she seemed a little hesitant. I asked if she liked me and she said yes. I had my reservations because I've known this person for a very long time, and know what she's like, but I was wondering if she was like that just because she liked me (apparently some people are meaner to people they're attracted to in order to hide their attraction? Idk, psychology is weird lol). So I said that we could try to date, and it turned out alright... kind of. We would watch shows together and kind of just hang out, hold hands, do relationship things, but she was super secretive to her friends about our relationship because she was embarrassed of the inevitable "I told you so's" that would ensue, which was fine at the beginning, but was starting to become a stressing point after about a year (to say the least). She was also still kind of mean some of the time, and was a little inconsiderate when it came to people (in general, not just me).

However, the thing that really crossed the line for me was when Lawson and I were going to help her and her roommate move into the dorms. I said I'd be free to help at around dinner time because that was when summer band started dinner break. I ask her if she's ready for us to help out. No response. I wait for about an hour, but I have to get dinner before band starts back up so I leave, leaving Lawson to help them on his own. By the time they actually got Lawson to help, he'd been waiting multiple hours. The reason? They were arguing about who was going to get which bed, and just kind of forgot that they'd asked for help and subsequently made the help they asked for wait multiple hours to help them.  I was pissed (perdon mi Francois), so we had a serious discussion about the future of our relationship, being more considerate, and eventually I realized that I couldn't continue the relationship the way that it was going, and we ended up breaking off that part of our relationship. We still talk occasionally, but only as friends (I don't really want to lose a lifelong friend lol).

I think what she wanted out of that relationship was the physical aspect, like hugs, hand holding, sitting close to each other while watching a show, etc. All nice things, but not a basis for a successful relationship on their own. I still don't know whether she was actually attracted to me as a person or just attracted to me because I was her "type" (in a physical sense, which I still don't understand as I am literally a spaghetti noodle lol). It kind of showed me the flaw in my "why not?" approach to accepting dates. I don't want to be too selective, but I also don't want to enable more situations like this one, and I'm still trying to figure out that balance. It also gave me more of a reason to be more outward in figuring out who I liked, and why.