1. Foundational Material: A friend comes to you with doubts concerning the existence of God. Explain to them the 4-5 sources of divine revelation that support the belief that we can know God, and then give 3 reasons why they can trust that the scriptures we have today are from God and were reliably copied and translated by humans.
	- Prompts to help direct your answer:
		1.  Discuss the 4-5 sources of divine revelation and how each one draws us closer to knowing God.
		2.  Discuss 3 reasons we can trust that the scriptures we have today reflect the divine revelation God gave the original authors of the Bible through inspiration. (e.g. what was the process of scripture formation? What did the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit contribute? What are reasons to believe the Bible has been reliably copied by scribes? Has been reliably translated by scholars?)
	- **My answer: There are four reasons that I have for believing that I can know God. The first of these is reason derived from nature, which tells me that everything in nature had to have a root cause, which I believe is God. This was Aristotle's argument. Another reason I have for my belief is experience, as I have seen the effects of people being blessed and have also experienced the balance of emotions that God has placed, such as the balance between heartache and peace, judgement and acceptance, etc. I also believe that I can know God through Scripture, and there are 3 reasons for this. One of these reasons is that the Bible is one of the most well maintained and consistent documents in human history, which means that it was meticulously copied by generations of scribes, which must mean that the scribes felt so strongly about their beliefs that they made absolutely sure to copy these documents with an accuracy that almost no other copied document has. I also believe that the Scriptures are inspired by God's Spirit. I believe that this inspiration can be compared to human inspiration, meaning that there is still plenty of room for interpretation from both the reader and the writer, but nonetheless it is still inspired by God and therefore is worth taking seriously. I also believe that one can know God because the Scriptures and the canon of the Bible were chosen by those who have known God through those Scriptures before, which gives me confidence that I can also know God through those same Scriptures.**

2. Psalms: The Book of Psalms has been called “a little Bible” and “Israel: The Musical.” Can you tell the story of Israel’s ups and downs using the structure, teachings, and emotions of the Psalter?
	- Prompts to help direct your answer:
		1.  Begin by describing the process of how a song became a Psalm (include the names of some of the authors and the significance of why they might have been involved in writing psalms)
		2.  Then talk about the theories and most likely purpose of the specific structure of the Psalter.
		3.  Finally, describe how the 2 main types of Psalms express emotions needed in worship today.
		4.  Who called it “a little Bible” and what did they mean?
		5.  What does it mean that the Psalter is a musical about Israel? How does each part contribute to the story?
	- **My answer: The story of Israel can be told through the Psalms through a general 5 section order. The first of these sections tells details about Israel's beginnings. Many of these psalms explore emotions of sorrow and cry to God for help, as Israel did in the wilderness after the Exodus. The second section tells of life in the Promised Land. Many of these psalms speak of how God is the protector of Israel, and how God "brings wars to an end" (Psalms 46). These psalms revel in God's glorious kingdom and focus on pleasing him in times of plenty. The next section represents Israel's time of exile after the destruction of the temple. In these psalms, it seems as though Israel realizes they have sinned. Many of these psalms are psalms of repentance, of how God makes them strong despite their circumstances. These psalms also say that if only Israel would listen, God might help them escape their predicament. In the Contemporary English Version, the heading for Psalms 82 bluntly states "Please Do Something, God!", which I think sums up the emotions felt by many Israelites during that time period. The next section is about Israel's hope for deliverance from their enemies. Many of thee psalms state that God is King, that he is powerful, and that he is the fortress of his people. These Psalms represent Israel exalting God and hoping that he will aid them in their time of need. After this section, the Psalter concludes by discussing Israel's emotions during their deliverance and the following time of restoration. These Psalms express Israel's gratitude by discussing God's ability to work wonders in the lives of his followers, how he helps those in need, and how good he is to his people.**

3. Psalms: A worship leader at a local church asks you to help them understand the 7 types of Psalms so that they can teach their church over the next 2 months. Give them a brief description of each type of psalm (e.g. Imprecatory), an example of each type (e.g. Psalm 35), and the occasion or purpose in which each type would be sung (e.g. in anger). End with 1-2 sentences containing your opinion on which of these 7 types of Psalms is most needed in the church today and why.
	- Prompts to help direct your answer:
		1.  What do we learn from the 2 major types of Psalms?
		2.  What are the 7 sub-types of Psalms? How would you describe each? What is an example of each? What can we learn by using each type in worship today?
		3.  Which type do you think we need more of in today’s worship and why?
	- **My answer: One of the seven types of Psalms is the Wisdom Psalm, and a good example of this is Psalms 1. These types of psalms contain good advice for Christians. Psalms 1 specifically explains the blessings one will receive from delighting in the Law of the Lord. This type of Psalm should be sung when one needs direction in life or advice towards making a decision. Another type of Psalm is the Torah Psalm. This type of Psalm reviews the instructions of the Torah to be quickly and easily referred to. An example of this type is Psalm 119, the largest chapter in the Bible. This type of Psalm can be sung for the purpose of practicing humility. The Royal Psalms are the type of Psalm that acknowledges God's greatness. An example of this type of psalm is Psalm 24. We can sing this type of psalm to show our appreciation to the Lord and acknowledge and accept his power over us. The next type of Psalm is the Ascent Psalm. A good example of this Psalm is Psalms 46. These Psalms were a good form of gaining confidence in the Lord during ceremonial feasts like Passover and the Feasts of Weeks and Booths. While many of us as Christians do not celebrate these feasts ourselves, we can still gain confidence in the Lord in the same way the Israelites practicing these feasts did. The next type of Psalm are the Lament and Praise Psalms. These Psalms are for lamenting over hardship and praising God for blessings respectively. What these Psalms have in common is that they both end with a praise towards God. What we can learn by singing these is that no matter what we're going through, we can praise God for his power and his ability to listen to our hardships. Examples of these are Psalms 22 and 51 respectively. The hardest type of Psalm to interpret in a helpful way is the Imprecatory Psalm. In these Psalms, the Psalmist asks God to rain curses upon their enemies, often in gruesome detail. While the hearts behind the more gruesome requests  are less than Godly, they still keep in mind that God is in control, and that he will judge as he sees fit. These Psalms are good for expressing anger while still acknowledging that God's will is the final word on what will happen to one's enemies. I think that in the church today, the Psalm we need most is the Lament Psalm. I think that churches today are more than willing to shut down negative emotions in the church, but Lament Psalms show that these emotions are not only good to express, but also that one can express them while still remaining faithful and appreciative of God.**