The Enlightenment was a time that centered around three main tenets: reason, nature, and progress. From these pillars of the Enlightenment came several advancements socially and musically. Society became more cosmopolitan, with cultures from across Europe being shared and embraced by each other. As a direct result of this, music became more "universal" (at least from a European perspective), and more music was listened to and funded by the general public along with the nobility. Musical style was also affected in other ways by the Enlightenment movement. Among things that were especially valued were melodies that were vocally constructed and easily singable, music that used short, recognizable phrases, freedom from technical complication within the music, and being immediately pleasant to listen to.

Examples of styles from this time period include *galant*, *empfindsamer Stil*, and *opera buffa*. *Galant* is a sophisticated, songlike style that is composed of short melodies and phrases that form larger sections. The harmonies are often simple, and often have repeated gestures. *Empfindsamer Stil* is a more dynamic style with more chromatic movement, rhapsodic freedom, and expression. The melody is speech like, reflecting the push of the movement towards the natural. *Opera buffa* as a whole was less focused on reflecting stories of myths and nobility and more focused on portraying common people, often choosing to portray nobility as caricatures. Opera in this time period aimed to be more "natural", meaning that the music was more expressive, more flexible, and less ornamented. Importance was placed on being able to clearly convey moods and color directly with the music. In this time period, many Baroque concepts around complexity and virtuosity were eschewed in favor of simplicity and concision. 